### voice 1

I left Lausanne, never to return. You won't know where I am returned. I won't
tell you in which city I died either, there are this a few years. Perhaps you
will look for me in vain somewhere on the edge of the Atlantic Ocean, in some
crevice of a cliff in Brittany, at the bottom of an Alpine tunnel, or on the
blinding ice of a Norwegian beach... Will you persist? Will you try your luck
on a particular Caribbean island where I had established myself some time after
leaving London, or in the hotel shabby land port of Khorgas, on the Sino-Kazakh
border, where I was led to one of those old industrial dreams which had haunted
me so much before my years of Scottish exile? One thing is certain, you will
not find me.

The only advice I can give you is to do nothing except to let yourself be
carried away by the course of things. When you hear these words, certainly, a
lot of things will have changed, and not necessarily for the better. The world,
I am sure, will have taken a turn that will not please you. Who knows, the
world will have perhaps finally reached the crisis to which it had been
promised since so a long time. Knowing him, he would even have liked to be
reconquered by the demons. So, you can blame yourself, as much as you want, for
not having had the courage to give in to temptation, to not have been more
fanatical in your career, not to have more lightly, more fully!, dedicated your
body and your soul to the destruction of this frozen world in which you never
believed.

*But even though the crisis will worsen, and risk tipping the industrial
societies in what historians of the 22nd century will call the “Age of
Turbulence” – unless, like the others, they do not adopt an agreed term, like
"planetization of chaos", to designate the emerging flow of centuries of
repression and legal obscurantism waiting for us – I don't worry. I don't worry
about big anymore thing, it is true,* especially since the loss of my
unfortunate friends, you know well which, whose fall, at the end of my urban
years, caused me so much sadness. But I digress. What I want to tell you is
that many attempts to act will continue to fail: yours, mine, theirs, and I was
never naive enough to believe that the increased assets of a few some, and the
growing credit of all the others, could have changed anything either to the
gaping hole left by the determinations of History, or would suffice to save the
world from itself.

As in the past, you won't have to choose which side of the coming war you will
side - as in the past in our disputes -, nor which side will lean the interest
of your heart, as if there always had to be a side.

For sure, if you follow my advice, if you guide your steps on the path that I
have given you patiently traced, and as long as you do not get stuck in the
impasse of chase my ghost, you won't have to choose. You will finally accept
what you never wanted to do. You will have to live with your own ideas, which
will not be not mine, even if they are the ones who created the cradle that saw
them to be born. You will know the future.

You will limit yourself, you will be obliged, to maintain a modest neutrality,
to shelter yourself as long as possible in the reassuring counterpoint of
laments that the populations of your spirit will be more constrained than never
to moan, the back bent, the shoulders broken, the mind automatic. You will you
reproach him without finishing? Or will they have revolted, by miracle, these
crawling creatures of your totalitarian imaginations? I can't know, even if I
cannot guarantee that no one will wake up, in the end, one day or another, from
the numbness of your psychic world.

If I'm not mistaken, everything I said in this message is at the end of
purposes than a lure intended to convince you to detach your eyes from events
which will play out and replay before your eyes, to turn you inward. I
anticipate that, as always, you will believe you meet *such a woman, with whom
you will dream of satisfying such a fantasy*. I approve, you know me, and yet,
it's stronger than me, boredom overcomes me. It's in these moments that I see
you return to your life already well established, or well on the way to being
so, in Paris, and get back to your old habits.

Just promise me one thing. Even though you will feel won by
resignation and depression – please don’t contradict me, I know you
the slave of these sirens –, trust me, take my advice, don't worry
don't, let yourself go. Because it is only in these moments, caressing with a
dying finger at the bottom of the abyss, that you will have a chance of falling on a
dark pearls that shine in the depths. You will then think again
perhaps to the happiness that you once knew in the comfort of my
inconstancy, and you will finally cry, after a life of drought.
