### voice 2

At waking time, the sun was undoubtedly laughing up there in the pastures, too
far from us to dream about it. We were caught in a violent current of
sulphurous air, and I felt in my bones the same indescribable terror as at each
time, an irrepressible darkness in the soul, when a fighter plane screamed just
above our heads, condemning the neighboring valley to flames of a hell that we
knew only too well.

“Let us suppress by force these infamous filth which threaten to molest the
Unspunnen Stone! » these were the words of the Corps Commander to our
multitude, carefree magma of immobile troops covering the plains of Mittelland
– corpses, already, almost all of them, although few of us knew. When _Le
Temps_ published, despite the reluctance of the editorial staff, and only after
repeated threats of mass resignation from the journalists, army documents
containing eradication plans emanating directly from the Federal Council, and
addressed to the general himself, “to have it carried out manually by you,
restoring for its implementation of the ancient means of the slaughterhouse
art", not hesitating to specify "that we should not fear the annoying
objections of cantons, nor the fiscal pitfalls that every patriot encounters in
the diligent implementation of these measures", we uttered cries of horror as
it happened must, but no one really took the matter seriously.

*And even as the crisis worsened, and risked tipping the industrial societies
in what historians of the 22nd century would call the “Age of Turbulence” –
unless, like the others, they do not adopt an agreed term, like "planetization
of chaos", to designate the emerging flow of centuries of repression and legal
obscurantism waiting for us, I didn't worry. I didn't worry about big anymore
thing, it is true.* In the past, I had feared being impure and ridiculous.
Worse, I had been shy about what people would say. To my great surprise, I
should not remain so. I had tried to break these chains by the sheer force of
my will, in vain. I then experienced the dull taste of resignation, and I was
convinced that this would be my slimming diet forever. Yet, since the idea of
hatred had manifested itself on the stage of the world, and our country, like
the others, no longer had as its only passion, for only fever, than to find a
way to cross the forbidden border beyond of which there is only utopia, I no
longer blushed.

I saw too much where we were not to go over it mentally, like a protective
mantra, the stages of Hegelian architecture. My heart was doing whisper into my
mouth these words so gray, so abstract, so intimate, while my spirit made my
eyes shed tears of hope mixed with blood.

Mechanist at heart, sorry at first for my strange collusion with the
Organicists in my section, I couldn't help but feel pity for my companions of
fortune, whom I knew, just like myself, condemned to mass grave. I slowly
realized, despite the bombs and the blaze, that I was became friends with those
whom, despite everything, I would come to call my ancestors.

For although I loved them ardently, I could not say that I was linked
friendship with them until then. On the contrary, it was in our very enmity,
undoubtedly the fuel of our mutual fascination, which I had found my happiness
during the first years of mobilization.

In the year 2000, when everything changed, I was twenty-two years old. My only
desire, then, was to achieve this higher level of effort, required, it seemed
to me, to explain myself, to know myself, to have faith in my attempts, to live
! I engaged in this enterprise without ulterior motives, obediently, for the
first time since the emergence of my consciousness, more than fifteen years
before, to all the dispositions that dance aroused in me unnaturalness of shame
and pride.

My life had been dismal, and my goals had remained stubbornly unthinkable. The
war was, after all, just another misadventure. However, during this time of
turmoil, I understood something about the man I was going to become – this
annoying double in whom I was going to have to, well willy-nilly, transmigrate.

My parents' attitude towards me, long unfathomable, now appeared crystal clear
to me. Too often, in my selfishness and my bitterness, I had exhausted my
mother, already quite humiliated by the torments of work and the surly
ignorance of men. Even the way I adored myself, then an insurmountable obstacle
seemed to have purged itself, and I noticed with astonishment, each time that I
was in love with such a woman, with whom I dreamed of satisfying such a
fantasy*, the craze with which I welcomed the great influence she would have on
my life personal. I had already thought about all this when leaving the gym,
wondering more and more what had prevented me from bonding with anyone, without
anything does not change. And suddenly everything became clear, as if these
questions didn't even exist.

I felt almost more than happiness: it was joy, a joy violent, often
uncontrollable. I was consumed by a thirst for all moments. The situation was
serious. I was drinking milk every five hours, and I couldn't suppress cravings
for instant Chinese soups. What to do ? My decision was as sudden as it was
irrevocable. I knew they were them, my chosen ancestors, always with me in
thought, who gave me the necessary force. I left Lausanne, never to return.
